Hey, everyone out there in the live stream.
Welcome, welcome.
It's super to have you here.
Thanks for being part of this, either live or if you come back later and watch the recording.
If you have questions or comments you'd like to be featured during the show or for David
or Phil, or even me, I guess, throw them in the live chat and I'll do what I can to bring
them up.
And yeah, Pradhan, you no longer have to await.
We are now here.
Oh, it moved, there we go.
Perfect, await stream, that's a good joke, man.
All right, let's get going.
David, Phil, welcome back, both of you,
to Talk Python To Me.
- Hello.
- Hello, thank you.
- Yeah, it's great to have you back.
David, I've had you on to talk about Flask,
And Phil, I've had you on to talk about derivatives of Flask,
I suppose, about your project.
And they're both kind of approaching the same type
of thing and then sort of zeroing in.
So now we have you here together, I suppose,
working on Flask 2.0, right?
- Yeah.
It's all merging into one, not really.
(laughing)
Our efforts.
- Yeah, but it's really cool to see you
working closely together,
rather than just two disjoint things, right?
I think that gives a lot of credibility,
especially to Quart, right?
'Cause Quart was kind of this experimental thing
and now it's, if not exactly,
is it a Palettes project officially
or is it just working more closely?
- It's working more closely.
And in addition, it uses Verkzog now,
which it never used before.
So it's been quite a lot of work in that project
to make that possible.
- Yeah, that's really cool.
And Verkzog is like one of these foundational bits of Flask,
as we'll get into, I'm sure.
- Yeah, so the idea is because Corp is supposed to be
API compatible with Flask,
we wanna get it using as much of what Flask
is using as possible.
And so, a long-term plan is to get it using
even more works at Fairslug.
- Yeah, yeah, super cool.
Maybe some, it's dangerous as well,
could get in there, who knows?
It's risky, but you guys can make it happen.
All right, now before we jump into the main topic,
Flask 2.0, you both have been on the show before,
I often ask people how they got in programming
in Python or whatnot.
You've both answered that question previously.
People can go back and hear it if they want.
So how much is a catch up?
What have you been on?
What have you been up to since you've been on the show last?
Bill, you wanna go first?
- Sure, I think in open source sense,
it's been, yeah, working a lot on Quartz
and working more at the time.
I don't think I was really helping with the pilots projects.
So I've been helping with them since.
And yeah, just kind of developing those two
and doing a lot of work trying to get, well,
the async support that's now coming to Flash,
which is quite exciting.
- Yeah, very exciting. - On a personal note,
yeah, on a personal note, I work in London.
So I've just been, I've actually worked for a few companies,
tried my own startup, it didn't work, sadly,
but yeah, working in London now, so that's good.
- Nice, I love London, that's a fantastic town.
I haven't been there in a year and a half, oddly,
I don't know why.
(laughing)
- David, how about you?
What have you been up to?
- So I'm trying to remember when we did our podcast last,
but it must've been like three years ago or something.
- It's been a while.
- So yeah, after that, I've just been
working down the backlog of all the issues
on Flask and palettes and all that.
And now we're finally at the point
where I'm confident about releasing all this stuff.
So yeah, it's just been more and more open source work
and then still working for the same company
I've been working for for 10 years now.
So that hasn't changed at all.
- Yeah, that's cool.
And I suspect they're pretty supportive of Flask.
- Oh yeah, we get to use it internally.
I actually introduced Python and Flask to the whole company
way back in the day now.
- Yeah, I mean, how much of an advantage is that
to have somebody like you?
Who is so familiar with everything, right?
- Yeah.
- If they didn't, they would be--
- They definitely like to use that as like,
hey, we've got one of the maintainers
of the libraries we wanna use.
- Yeah, exactly.
- We bring to the table.
- What's the advantage you have?
Well, have you met David?
No, that's fantastic.
That's fantastic.
And check this out.
You were back on episode 177
and the title was Flask goes 1.0.
So I feel like, yeah, yeah.
This is September 15th, 2018.
So it's been a while.
But also it's time to have you back
because now you guys have incremented
the big number in the version.
Well, not quite, almost.
- One more day.
- Is it one more day?
- Yeah, tomorrow.
- Okay, so for people listening on your podcast player,
that's like a week ago.
But people on the live stream, one more day, fantastic.
Super cool, so I see some really interesting questions
from people who are watching the live stream,
but let's dive into a little bit of background stuff
and then I think we'll go from there.
So I kind of wanted to start with the larger landscape of the web.
And maybe also you could tell us about, I just threw that out there as if people would know, the Palettes Project.
We talked about it a little bit with both of you.
David, give us an overview of what the Palettes Project is.
Because we have Flask, and we have Quart, and then we have these other libraries as well.
What's the relationships of all these things?
I know Core is its own thing,
but it uses like Verxoic, for example.
- Yeah, well, Pallets is the organization,
like just an open source organization,
not an actual company or anything,
that maintains Flask and the libraries that Flask uses.
And so that's Flask, Verxoic, Jinja,
Click, It's Dangerous, and Markup Safe.
And it was started, all these libraries used to be
maintained by the original author Armin
and his other group, Poku.
And eventually they kind of grew larger than that.
And the original team kind of grew to do other things.
And so he formed Palettes and that's about when I joined
and started maintaining everything.
So, although recently I've come to the understanding
that as much as I push the name Palettes,
I will never have as much name recognition as Flask.
And so you can also refer to things as Flask
and I will know what you're talking about.
- Yeah, no doubt.
General Flask obviously is made up
of the foundational bits as well.
- Yeah, yeah.
And so Palettes for a very long time
was just the GitHub organization
that these projects repos were under.
And I've been working over time
to expand that into an actual open source organization,
kind of not nowhere near this yet,
but inspired by like how Django Software Foundation works
and those sorts of things where they do things
besides just develop.
So we've been working on growing the community,
getting more maintainers involved,
running FlaskCon last July, I think,
and another one is coming up, I think, in November,
is this tentative schedule.
- Nice, this is obviously, I would guess online
at this point.
- Yeah, it'll be online still.
It was online last time also and it worked out pretty well.
You can go find all the videos on PyVideo.
They're up there.
- Yeah, yeah, fantastic.
Do you have sprints or anything like that around it
or is it just presentations?
- We didn't do sprints last time
'cause it was just our first time running a conference
but we'll see what happens this year.
- Yeah.
- No concrete plans yet.
- Yeah, fantastic.
All right, I kind of wanted to start off this conversation
with a wider view, just looking at the Python web space.
So I put up here for us to look at
the Python developer survey
from the PSF and JetBrains for 2020.
Obviously it's 2021, but the results for that
was the last survey that have come out.
And over there, we've got the web frameworks being used
and these things are never comprehensive,
like there's 6% of other, whatever that means.
But we have Flask now clearly being the most popular one.
So first of all, congratulations on that.
That's awesome.
I wonder if Quark was folded into Flask
or if it went into the other,
in a person's mind when they clicked the button,
which did they click?
- I imagine it's probably in the other,
and a small percentage, very small.
- Nice, okay, well, so this is really neat.
The big, I guess the big interesting thing here as well,
beyond, I think it was you and Django,
at least in this previous survey in 2019,
were just tied basically.
So now it's, you had talked about how there's a lot
of growth and a lot of momentum.
And I think it's even more than what you see here
on the screen.
Like I think a lot of the APIs that Flask embraces
in the way of doing web programming has been adopted
by many of the other new frameworks as well.
So for example, we have FastAPI making a jump up to 12% here
which is probably the biggest difference
from the year before as well.
So yeah, go ahead.
What do you think about this picture here?
And then like, what do you think about
just the Python web space in 2021, both of you?
- Yeah, I mean, FastAPI is definitely gaining ground.
Flask, I'm continually surprised
that so many people use Flask.
It's hard to wrap your head around that many people.
I was just looking at the downloads this morning
and it was 14 million in the last 30 days.
- In the last 30 days, that's so insane.
- And that's just Flask.
If you look at like Jinja,
'cause Jinja is used by things besides Flask,
like Ansible, where they're open like the 20 somethings.
- Yeah, very cool.
And you can use Jinja just on its own
for super interesting things as well.
Like I recently did a project where I needed to generate
a PDF that was like out of, you know,
here's data in a dictionary and I need to make a PDF
that looks formatted.
And I just use Jinja and a Jinja template
to generate the HTML, then feed it off to a PDF library
that made it into PDF, right?
There's all sorts of little edge cases like that.
- And same with Click.
I mean, people use Click to make actual
command line applications,
not just to provide a little CLI for Flask.
So yeah, when you look at this,
like you realize that like,
oh, they're also using like all these other libraries.
But I never really like think about the numbers.
I guess every now and then,
I remember Flask having more stars than Django on GitHub,
but that was 'cause Django joined GitHub late.
- Yeah. - And they've surpassed us now,
but that's about the only joke metric I follow really.
- Yeah. - But yeah,
I've seen a lot of interest in FastAPI
and I think it's nice to just see that like,
- Nothing's stagnating.
There's new ideas out there, people are developing,
there's stable libraries that continue to develop like us,
and we're still adding new features,
and there's completely new ideas,
or new formulations of libraries.
- Yeah, I feel like we're in a bit of a Cambrian,
sort of a thousand flowers blooming type of time,
and many of them won't survive that,
but there's a lot of fresh ideas out there,
and it's pretty exciting.
- Yeah, like having a healthy ecosystem,
choice that you can choose whether a certain framework is more appropriate for the project
you're starting or working on, I think is really powerful for users and maintainers.
- Yeah, and you can borrow ideas too.
Like, "Oh, I see the way FastAPI is doing types to mean this.
Maybe that makes sense to allow that as an option somewhere else."
Who knows, right?
- Well, one thing I quite like to take from this list is Falcon has a really quite exciting
router and I think it might be a little too much for Verksug perhaps but I've been playing around
with taking the ideas from Falcon and bringing it to Verksug so what makes it exciting is it's a
very fast matching system and yeah should outperform the Verksug router if we can get it in
by a good fraction so that'll be exciting. Yeah there's a lot of interplay here that I think is
pretty neat and while we're on this sort of broad topic, Rohit asks out in the live stream
What are the advantages of using Flask over Django?
Maybe that pairs them up a little bit too tight,
but look at this list.
These are the ones that probably the trade-offs
people are thinking about.
- Yeah, this gets harder for me to answer over time
'cause I haven't used Django in a long time,
but it's hard to compare them one to one.
It's like apples and oranges, right?
Like I said a couple of minutes ago,
you're choosing the project that's most appropriate
or the framework that's more appropriate for your project
and the way you wanna work.
So it's not necessarily that you're going to be losing out
or getting any given feature by choosing one or the other.
It's about how they feel when you're working on them.
Like sometimes Django makes more sense to people
or FastAPI makes more sense.
And then like they also have different goals, right?
Like Flask is deliberately just the web framework
and wrapping some other libraries around it.
But its goal is that if you want other features,
somebody develops an extension that is specific to that
and you add that on.
And I mean, Django, I don't know about FastAPI yet,
but like Django has the same idea.
It's just how many batteries they decide to include
is different.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Phil, you wanna take a shot at this
before I give my thoughts as well, maybe?
- Yeah, I think specifically Flask and Django,
I always thought it came down to a choice
about how to do things like Flask
doesn't really give you an answer
and you can go and choose from the extensions
whereas Django does.
And yeah, I think it's like David said,
a bit of what your preference is really,
what you prefer.
- Yeah.
- I mean, Django's making huge strides in async also
and we're adapting to that too,
but they all have different solutions to the same thing.
Approaches in different directions.
- Yeah, definitely.
There's a lot of interesting stuff happening
and Django around this as well.
So the way I see it is, you know, Flask,
it's like an empty canvas,
and it's got just a few really nice little building blocks,
and then you can build what you want, right?
Do you wanna use Postgres and SQLAlchemy?
Great, that's totally easy.
You wanna use MongoDB and MongoEngine?
Equally easy, go have fun, right?
Like you can pick just the little bits
that you really like,
you don't have any other bits to worry about,
and then you're good to go, right?
Django, it's like, well,
if you wanna break from the Django Rm,
Probably you can do it, but it's, you kind of,
there's a little bit of a mismatch there.
You kind of got to work around it.
It's advantages kind of become less good, right?
Like it's admin tools might not work as well
if you try to say switch to Mongo
or something along those lines.
And if what you want is like,
I'm not really sure what I'm doing to build this website.
And I just want some guidance,
like just show me the main way and I'll just do that.
I don't, I just would like to go along for the flow.
I think Django is fantastic for that.
It gives you like really good pre-built tools
like the admin stuff and whatnot.
But if you really care very much
about which little piece you pick
and want to put them together just so,
I feel like you're better off with a micro framework
of some sort like Flask.
Anyway, that's my view.
And I know some people love one side
and hate the other and vice versa.
So it's also a personal challenge
or a personal thing you gotta work out for.
Where do you fit on that spectrum?
- Yeah, I mean, I personally started with Django.
Flask was just being started when I was starting
to learn Python and web frameworks.
And then I eventually ran into something
where I wanted to do things that Django
wasn't designed to do, obviously.
And I started running into a bunch of stuff
and so I switched to Flask.
- Yeah, that's cool.
And you know, if you come from an ecosystem
where there's like clearly one choice for a lot of things.
You know, if you come from Ruby, okay,
you got Rails and the Ruby ORM,
come from Microsoft, you got ASP.NET and a framework,
like you don't have decisions, you just do the thing
and then eventually you build your app, right?
You come to Python, there's like, you know,
20 different choices at each level.
And you're like, this is like the paradox of choice.
This, even though it's in some ways, it's great.
In other ways, you're like, I have no idea what to do.
And so I think that can be a challenge for people as well.
- Yeah.
- But also an advantage once you get into it.
- Yeah, I think your best bet,
if you're asking the question,
should I use Django or Flask,
is to just pick one and learn enough,
like you know about that framework.
And I think you will be better equipped
to answer that question for your project
next time you have to ask it.
- Yeah, that's awesome.
- It doesn't really matter what you start with.
- All right, before we get into a more specific,
so sort of a general Flask question as well,
Pradibhan says,
since Flask started as an April Fool's joke,
does the core team, David and crew,
have any traditions around April Fools?
I hadn't thought about that.
It's a good question.
- Every time somebody brings up
that it was made on April Fools,
I remember that it was made on April Fools.
I always forget that.
- So I'm guessing not too many ones.
Okay.
- We don't have like a birthday party
or anything or celebration.
Maybe we should.
- Yeah, maybe we should.
There you go.
- I think you put out a blog for last year,
10 years, didn't you?
That was quite a good celebration,
but I think that was about it.
- Oh, maybe, yeah.
It's been 10 years for a lot of the libraries at this point.
- Yeah, very cool.
So let's talk Flask 2.0.
You know, it's been a couple of years it went to 1.0.
It was on the zero-vert train
like so many projects were before then, right?
And that doesn't really mean
that it was such a huge transition,
but there's a lot of stuff changing.
not necessarily in a breaking way,
but a lot of new things in Flask too.
Give us the exciting news.
- Well, the biggest one is probably async.
I'll let Phil talk about that.
- Yeah, there's like a async for Flask directly
and then like maybe tighter integration with core type
of next level async, right?
- Yeah, exactly.
So with Flask too, you'll be able to write async
view handlers or root handlers,
depending on what you like to call them,
before and after request handlers and tear down functions.
So it won't require any special effort
other than installing Flask with the extra support.
But then you can just write a sink and a wait
and carry on with your current setup.
You don't have to change anything else.
- Yeah, that's super neat.
And you actually gave a talk,
was it May 1st or something, 10 days ago?
What was it called?
It was, "Why isn't Flask async?"
And obviously, that's leading into where things are going.
You want to tell people a little bit about some of the ideas there?
You talked about the history,
obviously, Flask being a WSGI application.
Those are all naturally having a hard time moving to async
because the server itself needs to know.
But then you also talked about some of the things
that are happening to allow some asyncs to run directly without any server changes,
and then to move into an ASGI server.
Yeah, so what's the story?
Yeah, exactly.
So yeah, so obviously Flask started as a Whiskey framework.
I think it was probably Whiskey from the start, right?
So yeah, I know.
Yeah, so I couldn't quite remember when Whiskey was introduced.
So yeah, and obviously before Async/Await.
all these different servers and I don't want to have just this framework run on that server.
So, WSGI is born, right? But born in a world where async was less common.
Yes, but what it has supported the whole time and I think that's good to point out is Flask has been
async the entire time just using green nets and a lot of people use that very effectively. I think
it's absolutely fine and that for us I think was one of the key things to bear in mind that Flask
works async, and if we introduce async/await, we can't be breaking that at the same time.
So that was one of the big constraints, really. And then, so for the one side, it's keeping support
with those existing async solutions, and the other is introducing the async/await keywords, which
I think everyone has heard of the color problem and the virality associated with that, which makes
it actually really hard to get a little bit deep into the call stack, if you will, async, without
really having to change the whole call stack to async in one sweep.
Yeah, the challenge, maybe I'll try to give a little bit of background just for
people listening, is if I've got some low-level data
access library or service access library for like
using HTTPS or something, in order to await the thing at the bottom
that has to be an async method, the next level up in order to call that method
it's got to be async, you got to await it, so it's method's
got to be async and it just it goes up the entire call stack in a
in a lot of cases, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
So what it came down to and what we did was follow Django,
what Django have already done really.
And what they've figured out is that you can run
the asyncio event loop in one thread
and the greenlet based one or whatever you were doing
previously in the main thread
and then everything coexists nicely.
You just need these wrappers to move things
from one thread to another.
And that library, if you're interested,
is called ASCII ref.
but using that allows us to have this async code
in the view handler, but keep flash synchronous in the rest
and keep support with GreenNet, which is really nice.
- Yeah, that's really nice.
And in production in a lot of the servers,
it has threaded modes already that if,
like you're awaiting something
and then something talks to a network,
like a database call or a web service call or something,
it's going to release the GIL anyway
and the other threads can run.
So that can probably push out pretty far
just on its own, right?
- Yeah, I think it's been very effective
to a lot of companies.
I know companies that use it,
I think it's been really nice.
So that's what we've got to.
And I think you were talking about where can we go?
Can we go fully async and ASCII with Flask?
And this is possibly more of my personal opinion,
but I'm not sure it is possible to go there with Flask.
'Cause I think if you do so,
you end up breaking extension support.
'cause it's quite common for extensions
to extend the Flask class and change the methods,
but of course they won't be async.
So how are they gonna deal with that?
So- - Yeah.
There's the compatibility problem,
but, and then there's also just the problem
of having to mark everything as async await
if you mark one thing.
And we might discover,
I'm a little more optimistic than Phil,
but I'm also not as experienced with it.
But I would like it to be possible,
like at some point for us, you know,
we're focusing on like making a VeriXoic Sans I/O,
so it doesn't require blocking I/O operations
when you make requests and stuff,
so that you can use it in ASGI situations.
And that's gonna be a slow process,
we're not like 100% done with it or anything like that.
But my hope is that as we make VeriXoic completely,
like IO agnostic,
we might discover some ways to adopt Flask.
- Yeah.
- But it's also not 100% necessary
because core exists also.
(laughing)
- That's an interesting point.
Maybe there's a way to implement some of those extension.
So the problem is the extensions override certain functions
that are part of the lifecycle of requests,
and those are expected to be synchronous functions
because they had been for all of time.
You can't just make those async
and have those extensions still work.
At best, they're going to be kicking out
unstarted coroutines.
It's probably worse than that,
but maybe that's what they do.
I don't know. Something is not going to go super well,
but maybe you can create synchronous wrappers
around the async stuff that can
grab an event loop and run it.
or something, I don't know.
Like some, there could be some sort of an adaptation thing
where just the sync version,
maybe it's not quite as fast or something.
I'm not sure.
Yeah, as much as you guys have, I have way less than that.
- I was gonna say, I think with Flask 2,
I think this is, in my opinion, where you wanna be
because the motivation in my mind is you wanna use
some async based library
and there's some exciting ones out there
so I can fully understand that.
And you can now in Flask and it will work
and it will work with your existing setups.
I think the only reason you could want to go fully async
is because you're only using async libraries perhaps,
or perhaps you might see a bit
of performance improvement there,
which isn't necessarily guaranteed by the way.
For that though, I think there's court.
So I kind of think all the users' motivations
might be covered now, which I think is really exciting.
- That is very exciting.
- Yeah, and our goal is just to get court
flask as API compatible as possible. And they're already very, very close. But you know, moving
very exciting that and so like, ideally, it should just be a drop in like name replace
for everything.
Yeah, and you could probably pull it off with just the right import statement, right? Import
court as flask, or something potentially almost.
(all laughing)
- There's some monkey patching in Quark
where you can tell everything else that Quark is Flask.
So you can use some of the Flask extensions with Quark
by allowing Quark to pretend it is Flask.
This is kind of fun.
- Yeah, yeah, that is quite wild.
- I did see a question,
will Flask break current extensions?
No, our goal was still compatibility and stability.
So we are making major releases
and we are adding new features,
but it shouldn't permanently break anything.
There might be someone foreseeing incompatibility
that a library needs to update for,
but it's not like they will suddenly have to rewrite
their whole thing async or something.
- If it breaks it, it's not on purpose.
- Right.
(laughing)
- Yeah, yeah.
- That makes it sound bad too, but.
- No, no, I mean, like your intention
is to have it be compatible, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
That's always the intention of these libraries.
They're meant to be very stable.
And it's actually one of the things I've been working on
as a maintainer, as I've been maintaining these
over the years, is when I do make releases
or when I make changes, I try to make everything
show a deprecation warning first,
and then only remove it in the version after that.
So I do want to evolve things and refactor things
or identify patterns that weren't great
or that aren't needed anymore
since we're dropping Python 2.
And I do want to evolve the libraries,
but I don't want to break anybody
without warning them first.
And so there's a ton of deprecation warnings
in all the libraries this time.
- That's cool.
So speaking of that, yeah,
I saw this really nice flask 2.0 is coming.
Please help us test.
By Stetio, I don't know who this is.
If you know, maybe you can give him a shout out.
- Oh, that's me, yeah.
- Is that you?
- Yeah, perfect.
All right, yeah, so from you, Phil,
and you said from the changelog,
one of the things coming, well, first of all,
one of the things coming is Python 3+, sorry,
3.6+ only dropping 2 for sure,
and even 3.5, that's pretty interesting.
- Well, 3.5 is end of life now.
- Yeah, it seems so new in my mind,
but it's clearly not that new anymore.
- When I first made the announcement of dropping Python 2,
3.5 wasn't gonna go end of life until like nine months later,
but I decided to, I was gonna drop 3.5 anyway.
We won't usually do that.
Usually we're gonna, our plan is to try to wait
for the actual official end of life for Pythons for now on.
But 3.5 just, it was so much more convenient
to drop it at the same time.
And 3.6 is still supported,
but the next versions after these will be 3.7 only
because 3.6 will have gone end of life
probably by the time we make new releases.
- Right, right.
Okay, very cool.
And how much the five versus six,
was it just that three five is going out
or versus f-strings?
- We do use f-strings all over the place now,
but that wasn't the reason.
I mean, since we were doing three six plus,
I decided to like use f-strings in a lot of places.
I don't remember what was inconvenient about three five,
but there, I mean,
- I think async was slightly different.
- This was a year and a half ago now
when I wrote this extension. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, sure.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, look, if you're switching to two,
it's a chance for a nice break from some of these things,
even if they've got a few months left.
- Yeah, I was originally,
originally 2.0 was just going to be dropping Python 2
and making maybe a few minor changes,
and then I got anxiety about making releases
and breaking everybody's stuff,
and so I just kept working on more and more stuff
in the 2.0 instead of releasing it.
But because it's 2.0, that also kind of gave me
the opportunity to like identify more stuff
that I wanted to deprecate than normal maybe, or.
- Yeah, but it's a perfect time to do it
with such a big version change, yeah.
Version number change.
All right, I wanna pull out a few more things
from now that I know it's Phil's Reddit post here,
which got 1,300 upvotes, that's pretty awesome.
- A short form of decorators.
So instead of for routes or routes for you in London,
instead of app.route, you know, specifying get or post,
you can just do app.get, app.post.
That's that seems easy, but nice.
- Yeah, it's just a bit of a syntactic sugar really.
It should, yeah, should make it look nicer.
It's something going back to the ecosystem.
It's something the other frameworks will seem to adopt
and it's nice to steal.
- Yeah, yeah, that's one of the big differences
I've been seeing from the other frameworks
that they're very much like Flask,
but they kind of put the verbs on the decorators
a little bit more.
So why not take it back
if you inspired them in the first place?
Also, you know, blueprints, man,
blueprints are something I think
do not get enough attention and love
because they are so nice for organizing your code
into little bits and little categories of functionality
instead of, you know,
trying to associate them all with the main app, the app.
So there's some news around that for updates as well, right?
- Yeah.
- One of the oldest standing open issues,
Phil decided just like, oh, I can solve this.
And he like wrote something over a weekend, I think,
or it felt like that.
- Way to go, Phil.
Now it's Blueprints all the way down.
- I'll let Phil describe it.
- Yeah, it's exactly like,
you can nest Blueprints in Blueprints.
So I think the code structure is really helpful
'cause now it doesn't have to be all in that one Blueprint.
You can split it over a few files and bring them in,
which helps a lot.
And there's other structures where maybe you wanna reuse
some part of something in another Blueprint.
So you just bring in parts.
But yeah, you can just use that.
And you can use the command register Blueprint
on a Blueprint to register the Blueprint and carry on.
- Yeah, you used to have to say app.registerBlueprint
and you would give it the Blueprint
and that would help you build up the various pieces.
but now you can nest them and they can be more hierarchical,
which is great.
- Right, before it was just one layer,
you had the Flask app and then the Blueprints.
And so like each Blueprint could have a prefix,
but people haven't actually asked for it for a while,
but it's still been an open issue
and it doesn't seem unreasonable.
People have wanted to like have prefixes for prefixes.
And so then you get nested Blueprints and now it's possible.
- Yeah, awesome.
Let me take a couple of the questions out of the live stream.
First, Doug Farrell out there.
Hey, Doug says, hey, I'm working on a book
that uses Python flask as a primary example application.
When might flask 2.0 be released
and should I plan on updating the book to use it?
I'm guessing Doug didn't catch the very first opening bit
because you said tomorrow.
- Tomorrow.
If you're interested in following Pallets news in general,
there's @palletsteam on Twitter
and there's also palletsprojects.com/blog,
which has an RSS feed.
And so we actually have announced this already.
But yeah, it's May 11th tomorrow.
- Fantastic.
And then John Sheehan says,
"You're right, we don't hear enough about Blueprints."
I love Blueprints, yes, absolutely.
Radoi says, "In our Talk Python web training course,"
which is a Flask, it says,
"Flask basically rebuild pypi.org with Flask.
So is it safe to use Flask 2.0?"
I think so.
David said there shouldn't be any breaking changes,
maybe deprecations, if you see them, let me know.
I can update that, but I think it should be fine, right?
Same reason that production apps work,
the example apps should work.
- This time, this is the first time
we've tried to do release candidates
before we've made releases.
And so we actually have had release candidates up
for about a month now for all the libraries,
where you could test your existing code
with the new versions.
But I think in the future when we do this,
I think we need to do a better job at advertising that.
So, something we'll get better at every time.
- Yeah, yeah, cool.
Wow, people listening now know.
Then also I think interestingly related
to both the micro framework side of the story,
but also the new features like,
especially the async stuff,
Rohit asks, "Which will be the most compatible database
to supporting a framework for Flask 0?"
On one hand, like just do whatever you want, right?
But on the other, you've got Flask SQLAlchemy
as an extension, you've got the ability to use like
Tortoise ORM because of the async support.
Like there are new options, right?
What's--
- Yeah, I mean, Flask makes no requirement.
It doesn't affect what database you use.
Flask SQLAlchemy, that will have a 3.0 release
similar to these soonish.
I think I'm gonna take a little break
after this release first, but it should continue to work.
- What's the, you know, SQLAlchemy 1.4
just released with the first async API
and they're moving towards 2.0 as well with a new API.
What's the story around their new API
and the SQLAlchemy async support with Flask's alchemy?
Is there anything overlapping there?
- So, Flask's SQLAlchemy is compatible with 1.4 right now.
I did make a little bug fix release recently for that.
2.0 is just deprecating things,
so, and nothing that Flask SQLAlchemy uses is going away.
So it'll work with SQLAlchemy 2.0 when that happens.
In terms of the async stuff,
we might, Flask SQLAlchemy, like the extension,
might have to do something if we want to enable
using that pattern, but we might also not
because it's using a pretty clever use of greenlets
to enable compatibility between sync and async code.
And Flask's async support should support that
out of the box, or not out of the box,
but it's possible to extend it to do that.
- Yeah, yeah, super cool.
All right, another thing I saw in the release notes
was that around Vectoid,
there's performance improvements coming.
coming in Flask and in Virxoic.
Wanna just give people a little insight
into what's coming there?
- Yeah, so one of the things I think the one
that got the most attention,
got some interest on the Python subreddit
was an improvement we did to the form passing.
So I think there's this issue that's about five years old
saying it was a bit slow, especially for large files.
And as David mentioned earlier,
we were looking at moving that to be Sans IO.
And in the work to do that,
the original author of that issue actually came back
and said, "Oh, if you do this,
you'll make it a lot quicker as well."
And when we did that, he pointed out,
we've made it about 10 to 15 times quicker
than the previous form parser.
So yeah, if you're being sent files to your Flask server,
it should be a lot quicker.
- Yeah, form data in general is faster.
And then if you're uploading large files,
that's way, way faster than what it used to be.
- Oh wow, like multi-part form upload type of files.
- Yeah, so if you were uploading
even like hundreds of megabytes,
it could be really slow in some cases.
And so now you can just upload
our big gigabytes of ISOs if you want,
should work fine.
- Just like--
- I mean, it'll still take as long as it takes to upload.
- Yeah, you can't change the internet.
Yeah, it doesn't make it worse, I see.
- Yeah.
- Cool.
- And I don't know, I think,
I'm trying to think if there were any other performance improvements in Versoy.
I know a couple of releases ago, we made a pretty big one to our URL building,
which made it like 10 times faster or something.
That's already released, but it has been getting faster.
Yeah, okay.
We haven't measured it, but I think the work,
taking out all the compatibility shims and just going pure life and free
should be noticeable.
Yes, since we've removed all the compatibility code for Python 2 stuff,
I like literally the dot compat dot py files are gone and all the code that was calling that.
There's still some more work to be done on that in terms of like accepting both bytes and strings
in a lot of places where it doesn't really make sense anymore. So there's still some overhead,
but there's a lot less compatibility overhead than there was before. But yeah, it hasn't been
measured. But I expect that to be noticeable because when Versoy and flask first added
support for Python 3, going the other direction.
So it was Python 2 only, and then it became Python 3.
Some people stuck with really old versions of Verxilium Flask because there was a noticeable
performance degradation by adding all that compatibility code.
So now that it's gone, it should be better.
Okay, yeah, fantastic.
I know the NumPy people, they actually got a lot better.
They shrunk their code a bunch by dropping 2.0,
or Python 2, 2.7, and similar for you all?
- Yeah, it's just, I mean,
besides the performance improvements,
it's just more maintainable now.
I pushed really hard to drop Python 2,
even before it went end of life.
I started thinking about how to do it
because I never used Python 2 back then,
and I still don't know.
And so every time I had to fix something,
I had to like, oh gosh, now I got to run the Python 2
version of the tests and figure out how to like
make some weird compatibility shim, you know,
between the two.
So it was a nightmare maintenance for like maintainers
and contributors.
- Yeah, I was gonna say, it's probably easier
for contributors as well now to come in
'cause they don't have to, you know,
a lot of people these days, they don't know Python 2, right?
- Right, exactly.
- They don't wanna come in and like learn, you know,
something from 10 years ago so they can keep it compatible.
They just wanna add the new feature.
- Yeah, and it's not like if you somehow have
like a Python 3.5 application still or whatever,
you can stick with Flask 1.1.
You'll still get your application working just fine.
I mean, we're not gonna be supporting it
because we just don't have that capacity,
but the libraries are fairly stable.
You know, like we almost never get bug reports
asking us to backport something, for example.
- Yeah, and I, you know, I use Dependabot
like pretty much anybody who uses GitHub does,
at least for security.
- Right.
- And I don't see--
- People have become a lot more aware overall
of that they should be pinning dependencies
and how to do that and how to upgrade intentionally.
And so hopefully over time that, you know,
less people will be surprised by updates
and their applications will continue working
with the versions they work with.
- Right, exactly.
And if you're worried about these changes,
just pin it to 1.11 or whatever it is,
just let it be until you're really ready.
But also you'll get notified of any security issues
that you might need to jump in and fix, right?
So, and what I was gonna say is,
I don't remember seeing any around Flask
and Werkzeug almost ever, so they're pretty stable.
- It's pretty rare for there to be like critical bugs
or security related bugs reported.
We get stuff every now and then,
but we just make a point release.
- Yeah, and Rohit asked previously about like,
why would I use something like Flask
over say something like Django?
I noticed security releases for Django more often.
And I think it's because
they just have so much more going on.
Like they have a whole admin section with forms and input.
And you guys just,
it's not, if it's not there, it can't have a vulnerability.
- There's a much larger attack surface, yeah.
I think,
but it's not that Django is less secure overall though.
I mean, first of all,
they have released all the security updates
so they're staying secure.
but I think they have a much larger team.
And so they have the capacity to do these sorts of analysis
that maybe we don't.
I'm not saying like, I think Flask is insecure,
but it could be that, you know,
they're just, they've just got more eyeballs on these things
like noticing like, oh yeah, we shouldn't do this.
We can make it safer or something.
- Yeah, yeah.
And I just think the surface area is so much larger
that it's bound to happen.
- Doug has-- - I'm not positioned
for the last two.
(laughing)
- Doug says, "Oh man, trying to get in Django,
"my new job, so much magic,
"too much magic happening there for me."
But he also has a question that I think maybe,
you know, Phil, you spoke about in your presentation.
Does this release change how you run in production?
Like, G-Unicorn versus MicroWSGI
versus who knows what, HyperCore?
- Yeah, I think the good thing to say is that,
no, it doesn't change it at all.
It still works the same and you can still use Unicorn
and use the async capabilities now in Flask.
If you wish to use an ASCII server, you can as well.
You need some middleware and adapter to do it.
And there's some examples in the Flask docs
if you wanna see which one we recommend.
So you can choose any server,
but yeah, very important for me to point out
that you don't have to change anything.
You can just carry on as before.
Yeah, so if you want, how would you categorize? You actually in your talk spoke about a spectrum of async capability.
On one hand you have Flask with its decent async support but not full AGSI server capabilities.
And then you've got Cort which can be a 100% ASGI. So you kind of thought of it as a spectrum, right?
- Yeah, so my idea is that if your code base is mostly sync,
as you may have started, then Flask is a great choice.
If you want to add a bit of async here and there,
it's still a great choice.
It's only when perhaps you want to go fully async
or you've mostly async with maybe a few sync pieces of code
that you actually would choose core.
I think the really nice thing for the user
is you can hopefully just go across that spectrum,
eventually change the name, but then just continue
and it's a pleasant experience, is my hope.
Yeah, awesome.
- You should still be able to use the same WSGI servers,
basically, like we've said a couple of times,
like we're not breaking anything,
we're not changing how Flask works or anything like that.
So you still deploy it the same way.
And if you do wanna use an ASGI framework
for some reason, or server for some reason,
you can always use an adapter to serve a WSGI app
over ASGI too, you just don't get any of the benefits,
really.
- Yeah, and Doug makes a good point out there
that Flask and Flask for the Win
still making g-unicorn a good solution.
With g-unicorn, you can change the worker type, right?
You can let it be the regular one,
or you can say, I think it's -k for the option,
change the worker type to u-vehicorn workers,
which would switch it to be an ASGI version.
So you don't even necessarily have to change anything,
but like part of your command line
for your startup of your g-unicorn,
And that could be the total change you have to do.
- And going back to a point that Phil made earlier,
that's in the same way you could change the worker
to use like G event or something
and already have an async flask,
just with an older version of async code
or an older implementation.
- Yeah, yeah.
And Joe out there says,
"I had looked at the new asyncio features,
"but it seems from the docs that it's early days
that maybe later versions will get more asyncio adoptions.
I guess that's a good direction to have a quick chat about.
So what's the, so this is 2.0,
is this where you see it sort of laying
or do you see this as a progression?
- I think it's fair to say it's a progression definitely.
I mean, the ideal outcome in the end
would be to somehow merge Flask and Quark,
users be able to use any amount of async
and or Biasky or Whiskey
and everything just works nicely for them really.
Again, as I said earlier, I'm a bit skeptical
about whether that could be the one namespace
I just called Flask or whether you need to split it up
as it is now, but yeah, I think it's the start.
Hopefully we can keep going.
- Yeah, like the async stuff we've gotten there so far
is for supporting the most important thing
that we thought people were needing async for,
which is I have some async code,
or like I'm using discord.py, for example,
to write a discord bot or something.
That's all async, right?
So if you want to write that code,
you need to type async def and put your code in there.
- Right.
- So we're enabling that.
We've got extension points to change,
you know, what asyncio loop you're using,
like asyncio versus trio versus greenback.
- Or uv loop or something, maybe.
- Or you, I'm not sure if that would tie in,
Phil might be able to answer that.
And then like, you know, addressing things
like being able to do WebSockets and that sort of thing.
We might be able to do that in Flask eventually,
or that might be the place where you switch over
to the Quark namespace.
- Yeah.
- But you're using the same API,
it's just a different name.
- Yeah, Phil, that's something I wanted to ask you about.
I just let you give a quick shout out about
is the WebSocket support that you all have in Quark.
- Oh yeah, I mean, I don't know if there's much more
to say that other than it's definitely supported.
- It's supported.
- And it's good to use it.
- Well, you did bring some of that stuff
back to Vericsoy though.
So because you're using Vericsoy in core,
you needed to be able to route to a WebSocket URLs
as opposed to HTTP URLs.
And so we now have a way to identify
in our Vericsoy router,
whether something is intended to be a WebSocket or not.
So it'll change based on the scheme you're using.
I think it's good to point out that Miguel has a kind of experimental support,
I think, in Flask as well for web sockets, which is good to keep an eye on.
We'll have to see how that goes.
Yeah, there is...
I don't remember what it was called or anything,
but there's a way that G-Unicorn
will let you take control of the HTTP socket from an endpoint.
And so within your Flask view, you could take over controlling the socket
and start treating it like a WebSocket instead.
- Like an upgrade type thing?
- Yeah, so you still are in Flask and WSGI mode.
So you're still like sync in terms of one worker
is blocked handling that one thing,
but it's pretty clever.
- Yeah, and Joe out there throws out that,
it's Miguel Grimberg, I'm guessing it's Miguel
you're talking about.
Yeah. - Yeah.
- Shout out to Miguel. - Yeah, there's also
Flask Socket.io, but this is like a more native thing
where you can just do this directly in Flask
instead of needing an extension.
- Yeah, okay.
- Cool stuff.
- Yeah, super cool.
All right, we're getting sort of short on time.
So I wanna ask a couple of questions
and hit on some high notes as well here.
So what are the things that I think is pretty exciting
that GitHub has done?
You know, GitHub, I think continues to be pretty neat.
And one of the things they've done
is they've added sponsor support for projects, right?
Has that been helpful to you all?
- Yeah, we've gotten quite a lot of support.
We're part of the PSF.
And so we take donations through them.
If you go to palletsprojects.com/donate,
you get the PSF donation page.
And so we've got lots of people,
making one-time donations or scheduled monthly donations.
And we're also part of Tidelift,
which is a commercial sort of open source support service
that we're getting funding through.
And we're also, I mean, this isn't really a sponsor link,
but since we host all our docs on Read the Docs,
we're partnered with Ethical Ads,
which is their advertising platform
to share the advertising revenue on all our docs.
And so we're getting quite a bit of funding.
- Yeah, that's fantastic.
- That's good to hear.
I do feel that there's probably a handful
of billion dollar companies that are using Flask
at the core that maybe could click that link
and do a little more, but shout out to them.
- Yes.
(laughing)
If you're using Flask at your company,
take a look at the sponsor links.
- Yeah.
- We have lots of plans for what to do with it.
I was really happy to see GitHub put this in here
because just having a little, you know,
buy me a coffee link on the side of a homepage.
That didn't seem like it worked,
but I think this sort of central way.
And what's interesting is I didn't realize
that you could link to external sponsors.
Like my thought was that that sponsor button
really was going through the GitHub sponsor channel
or framework or whatever.
- Yeah, we haven't, I've heard people recommend
that we use GitHub sponsors as well
because a lot of companies who are already
in GitHub's ecosystem have an easier time
clicking that button than something external.
- Yeah.
- So that's something I will be looking into.
- Kind of an app store versus not absolutely,
like first go to our site to buy a type of integration,
right?
I feel like it's almost like that.
Yeah, I would definitely recommend it.
I've sponsored some things through the sponsor button there
and it's super easy.
Okay.
Mars, how about that?
- Yeah, Flask is on Mars or help the lander get to Mars.
- And I bet if I pull this up,
let me see if I can find your user profile here.
I just have to hack the URL.
It's gonna have to be that way.
And I go down here, you, here you go.
You have the official achievement,
Mars 2020 helicopter contributor.
How awesome is that?
Phil, do you have one of these as well?
- Yeah, I think so, yeah, yeah.
- I'm so jealous, I want one of these.
Everybody who's gotten a code contribution
to the repositories should have that badge.
And there's been plenty more people
who have contributed in other ways
that should have that badge, but don't.
- Yeah.
You should also have the Arctic Vault contributor badge.
- Oh, I have the Arctic one,
but I turned it off a while ago
'cause I thought it was kind of silly.
- Yeah, yeah, this one is way more.
- I don't know how that whole system works,
but if they had archived Flask 2.0
after all of my work was like done, I'd be much happier.
But they archived it like two years ago now.
- Yeah, so there's a lot of ways
in which Python is being used on Mars.
When the lander first landed there and, you know,
people said, oh, look, there's the F prime library
that was used to power the Ingenuity helicopter.
That means Python's there.
I'm like, ah, it looks like maybe Python
just trained the model and C++ was there,
but it turned out in the lander that went down.
Actually, the cameras, all the different angles
were controlled by Python,
and then getting those images back to JPL
was part of Python.
And yeah, what's the story of the Flask and Mars?
This is so cool.
- Yeah, so Flask is actually part of fPrime.
So fprime is like their, I'm not an expert on this,
but it's like their flight control software, I think.
So it's like a monitoring dashboard for everything.
So they're using Flask to provide like all this information
about the launches and flights and landings
and get updates in real time.
So I think that's where our stuff came in,
but I'm sure other parts of their code are using Jinja
or Click in other ways, not necessarily through Flask.
- Yeah, that's so cool.
What is the thing that-
- So very exciting.
Every now and then I'll see like a,
you know, some big thing like this F prime
and I'll, they won't have mentioned Flask or anything,
but I'll have like, somehow I'll have like this
intuition that it was used.
And so like I went and just looked at F prime
and I'm like, oh, it's Python requirements.txt, Flask.
And I went and announced it on a GitHub.
I'm like, wow, check this out.
- Yeah, that's super cool.
So neat, yeah.
Go to the dependency graph.
I'm sure we'll see.
Yeah, look what number one dependency right there.
- There we are.
- In Flash RESTful.
Yeah, something to do with APIs here, right?
- Yeah.
- Cool.
All right, let's, I guess, round this out with,
oh, two things actually.
Real quick though, I wanna take a question,
I think, or follow up comment from Ikevu.
Might be off topic, they say,
but it would be, they would love to know more
about how to convince a large employer to spend money
sponsoring an open source project.
- I wish I had a good answer for this.
I know there's been thought on this.
I'm just not the best person to talk about it.
I'm not an expert yet.
I would say, look at Tidelift.
their whole, that their company and their whole job
is to be that in between, between open source
who doesn't know how to convince companies to do this
and companies who are using a lot of open source
but don't know how to analyze their dependencies
and divide up their support.
And so if you go look at Tidelift,
their whole goal is to enable that sort of thing
and discuss it with management and all that.
- Tidelift?
- Maybe Tidelift.
- That's not good if they're getting it.
They might be down temporarily.
Never seen that before.
- Maybe.
I think that maybe ACPS.
- Oh, ACPS.
- ACPS, yeah, we're good.
Yeah, so that place.
Yeah, I do think this is a good option as well.
You know, they sponsored Talk By Dawn for a little while.
And I think they're definitely trying
to be creative in this, right?
They're trying to offer something to employers
that's not just put it on your charity column
in the balance sheet.
like we don't have a charity column in the balance sheet.
What are you talking about?
So doing something a little bit different there.
- I think it's- - Go ahead, Phil.
No, go ahead.
- I was gonna say, you can look at it, I think,
as a company as part of your recruiting spend.
I think every company knows how competitive the market is.
And I do think engineers do look at what interest
and what you do in the open source community
and look at it in a positive light.
So I think that might help.
- Yeah, I totally agree.
A couple of other quick follow up questions.
Olga asks, can F prime connect to APIs on earth?
Like, do you guys know anything about this?
- I think it is used on earth as well.
I mean, like I said, it's like a monitoring dashboard.
So it's not something that's actively running
on the Rover, I think, from what I understand.
I think it is accepting data from sources like the Rover
and other systems and then displaying that
and coordinating it.
- Very, very cool.
And then Joe asks if Armin Roenikers
still involved with the project any?
- Armin is not.
He, I mean, he's still part of the GitHub organization
and he's like in our maintainer channel on Discord,
but he's moved on to other things.
You know, he's working in Rust a lot and other things.
- Yeah, my impression is he's kind of moved on to Rust
and is just enjoying his time there, which is totally fine.
Like people don't have to stick with one technology
their whole life, right?
Even if they made contributions.
- That's one of the things I've been trying to do too
since I became a maintainer was get more maintainers, right?
So it's not just Armin and then after Armin,
it's not just me, you know, I'm trying to expand it
so it doesn't matter if Armin or I are still involved.
- Yeah, yeah.
And Box of Ninjas out there says,
I need the Mars endpoint.
- Yeah, I don't think they just let that out to anybody.
- Yeah, there's probably, they don't put off in there.
It's hard to find the endpoint.
No, I have no idea.
- Connect to the right satellite at the right time.
- Exactly.
You can just tunnel over there.
All right, so I think that's probably
all the stuff we got time for,
but thank you guys for covering this.
Let me ask you the last two questions
before you get out of here.
If you're gonna work on Flask or Quark,
what editor do you use these days?
- I've been using PyCharm for almost a decade now,
I feel like.
Pretty much since I started using Python.
So PyCharm, all the way.
- Right on, Bill?
- I use Emacs, although I've used VS Code a few times.
If I ever record something, I use VS Code,
but yeah, Emacs is where I do the work.
- Oh yeah, do it right down the bare metal.
Awesome.
- Yeah.
- Cool, and then recommend some library package
you all have come across recently
that you're like, oh, this is super cool.
People should know about X.
Any ideas?
- I would, I'm really enjoying using Pydantic
to validate the incoming requests,
like just as a data class setup.
I know you can do it with different ones as well,
but the syntax seems so clean just to say,
this looks exactly like a data class
and I just use it to validate my incoming.
It's great.
- That's fantastic.
One of the things I've started to do as the first line
in my Flask API endpoints is to say
Pydantic model equals class star star,
what is it, request dot JSON, something like that.
Just immediately try to convert it
to invalidate it with Pydantic.
Something I learned recently, I had Samuel on the show
who creates and maintains Pydantic,
is, although I didn't learn about it on the show,
someone else pointed out to me,
there's a like a secrets capability built right
into Pydantic that like works with like .env files
and all sorts of stuff.
It's got this whole mechanism.
So yeah, that library does a bunch of cool stuff.
- So I don't have a good answer for this
because I've been just dealing with Flask itself
for so long and getting those ready
that I haven't really been exploring new stuff for myself.
Does this mean I get another?
- You can have another, but yeah.
So like hopefully I get to learn about some new libraries
soon after, you know, Flask 2.0 goes stable.
I will say at work, this isn't official yet
'cause we're gonna, we need to write documentation.
It's totally unusable right now 'cause it's not documented,
but we've been working on a open source library
called auto-invent, which takes a data model,
like such as your SQLAlchemy models
and produces an entire GraphQL API and React front end
from just the data model,
plus like customizations to some metadata.
- Oh, that's cool.
- It's super handy.
It's really cool.
It's completely undocumented.
So I will at some point, maybe half a year from now,
announce the actual project.
But if you go to an autoinvent.dev,
you can see all our messy code right now.
- Nice.
Well, you got one more, go for it.
So Trio, if you've not heard of it,
it's a different Async/Await based
event loop implementation.
And I think I really like it
'cause the structured concurrency it introduces
is the way I think the most Pythonic way
to do Async and Await.
- Yeah, Trio is neat.
I had the, I don't remember the maintainer's name,
but I had him on the show.
Nathan? Nathaniel, that's right.
I had Nathaniel on the show.
And yeah, it's super cool,
Like how you can have dependencies between, you know,
this task created those tasks and you cancel one,
you cancel them all.
There's a lot of interesting patterns that come out of there
Very neat.
All right.
I think that's it.
David, Phil, thank you.
Quick shout out or a quick final call to action.
People want to get into Flask 2.0.
They want to upgrade their stuff.
Maybe they want to take advantage of the async stuff
or whatever.
What do you tell them?
Where do they go from here?
- Well, look for that.
Look for that new version releasing tomorrow or a week ago,
depending on where you listen to this.
Follow Palette's team on Twitter,
if you wanna see announcements for new things.
And also if you're interested in like contributing
to these projects,
I would encourage more people to go on GitHub,
you know, at least star the projects you're using,
but also watch them, you know,
watch for new issues coming in.
There's anybody can pick up one of these things and help out
that we really appreciate.
- Yeah, I think star and fork
are the ones that get all the attention.
But yeah, one thing that GitHub just recently added,
I know I said this is it,
but I just wanna give a little quick awareness to people,
I think it's super cool.
If you forked a repo,
it used to be you'd have to go CLI
and add an upstream origin,
and then you have to kind of keep that in sync.
Now they've added a button that if you go to a fork
and it's yours, you can just click a button
and go sync my fork with the original now.
And I think that'll encourage people to fork it
and just stay up to date a little bit easier.
So that's pretty cool as well.
Phil, final call to action.
What do you say to folks?
- Well, I think it would be go out and use it
and let us know if it solves your needs,
if it does what you want, yeah.
- Yeah, awesome.
All right, thank you both for being here.
- Thanks Michael.
- Yep, bye. - Thank you.
- Bye, thanks everyone on the live stream as well.
Thanks for being here.
[BLANK_AUDIO]